# [Python Tutorial](https://data-flair.training/blogs/python-tutorials-home/)

# Target

Python Program to Find the Size of int, float, double and char<br> Python Program to Demonstrate the Working of Keyword long<br> Python Program to Check Whether a Character is Vowel or Consonant<br> Python Program to Find the Largest Number Among Three Numbers<br> Python Program to Find all Roots of a Quadratic Equation<br> Python Program to Check Leap Year<br> Python Program to Check Whether a Number is Positive or Negative<br> Python Program to Check Whether a Character is an Alphabet or not<br> Python Program to Calculate the Sum of Natural Numbers<br> Python Program to Generate Multiplication Table<br> Python Program to Display Fibonacci Sequence<br> Python Program to Find GCD of two Numbers<br> Python Program to Find LCM of two Numbers<br> Python Program to Display Characters from A to Z Using Loop<br> Python Program to Count Number of Digits in an Integer<br> Python Program to Reverse a Number<br> Python Program to Calculate the Power of a Number<br> Python Program to Check Whether a Number is Palindrome or Not<br> Python Program to Check Whether a Number is Prime or Not<br> Python Program to Display Prime Numbers Between Two Intervals<br> Python Program to Check Armstrong Number<br> Python Program to Display Armstrong Number Between Two Intervals<br> Python Program to Display Factors of a Number<br> Python Programming Code To Create Pyramid and Structure<br> Python Program to Make a Simple Calculator Using switch...case<br> Python Program to Display Prime Numbers Between Intervals Using Function<br> Python Program to Check Prime or Armstrong Number Using User-defined Function<br> Python Program to Check Whether a Number can be Expressed as Sum of Two Prime Numbers<br> Python Program to Find the Sum of Natural Numbers using Recursion<br> Python Program to Find Factorial of a Number Using Recursion<br> Python Program to Find G.C.D Using Recursion<br> Python Program to Convert Binary Number to Decimal and vice-versa<br> Python Program to Convert Octal Number to Decimal and vice-versa<br> Python Program to Convert Binary Number to Octal and vice-versa<br> Python program to Reverse a Sentence Using Recursion<br> Python program to calculate the power using recursion<br> Python Program to Calculate Average Using Arrays<br> Python Program to Find Largest Element in an Array<br> Python Program to Calculate Standard Deviation<br> Python Program to Add Two Matrices Using Multi-dimensional Arrays<br> Python Program to Multiply to Matrix Using Multi-dimensional Arrays<br> Python Program to Find Transpose of a Matrix<br> Python Program to Multiply two Matrices by Passing Matrix to a Function<br> Python Program to Access Array Elements Using Pointer<br> Python Program Swap Numbers in Cyclic Order Using Call by Reference<br> Python Program to Find Largest Number Using Dynamic Memory Allocation<br> Python Program to Find the Frequency of Characters in a String<br> Python Program to Count the Number of Vowels, Consonants and so on<br> Python Program to Remove all Characters in a String Except Alphabets<br> Python Program to Find the Length of a String<br> Python Program to Concatenate Two Strings<br> Python Program to Copy String Without Using strcpy()<br> Python Program to Sort Elements in Lexicographical Order (Dictionary Order)<br> Python Program to Store Information of a Student Using Structure<br> Python Program to Add Two Distances (in inch-feet) System Using Structures<br> Python Program to Add Two Complex Numbers by Passing Structure to a Function<br> Python Program to Calculate Difference Between Two Time Periods<br> Python | Declare different types of variables, print their values, types and Ids.<br> Python program to demonstrate variables scope<br> Python program to check whether a given number is a Fibonacci number or not<br> Python program to find power of a number using exponential operator<br> Python program to find the power of a number using loop<br> Python program to find the power of a number using recursion<br> Python program to extract and print digits in reverse order of a number<br> Python program to reverse a given number (2 different ways)<br> Python | Some of the examples of simple if else.<br> Python | Input age and check eligibility for voting.<br> Python | Find largest of three number using nested if else.<br> Python | Calculate discount based on the sale amount.<br> Python | Calculate discount based on the sale amount using Nested if else.<br> Python | Example of Ternary Operator<br> Python | Design a simple calculator using if elif (just like switch case)<br> Python | Demonstrate an example of for loop<br> Python | Demonstrate an example of for each loop<br> Python | Examples of loops (based on their control)<br> Python | Some of the Examples of loops<br> Python | Demonstrate an Example of break statement<br> Python | Demonstrate an Example of continue statement<br> Python | Demonstrate an Example of pass statement<br> Python | Program to print numbers from N to 1 (use range() with reverse order).<br> Python | Print all numbers between 1 to 1000 which are divisible by 7 and must not be divisible by 5.<br> Python | Calculate square of a given number (3 different ways).<br> Python | Find factorial of a given number (2 different ways).<br> Python | Find the factorial of a number using recursion<br> Python | Write functions to find square and cube of a given number.<br> Python | Declare any variable without assigning any value.<br> Python | Write a function to find sum of two integral numbers in string format.<br> Python | BMI (Body Mass Index) calculator.<br> Python | Program to print Odd and Even numbers from the list of integers.<br> Python | Program to print Palindrome numbers from the given list.<br> Python | Compute the net amount of a bank account based on the transactions.<br> Python | Count total number of bits in a number.<br> Python | Generate random number using numpy library.<br> Python | Program to calculate n-th term of a Fibonacci Series<br> Python program to calculate prime numbers (using different algorithms) upto n<br> Python program for not None test<br> Python program to check whether a string contains a number or not<br> Python program for pass statement<br> Python program to define an empty function using pass statement<br> Python program for Zip, Zap and Zoom game<br> Python program to convert temperature from Celsius to Fahrenheit and vice-versa<br> Python program to find the number of required bits to represent a number in O(1) complexity<br> Python program to count number of trailing zeros in Factorial of number N<br> Python program for swapping the value of two integers<br> Python program for swapping the value of two integers without third variable<br> Python program to find winner of the day<br> Python program to find the matched characters in a given string<br> Python program for Tower of Hanoi<br> Python program Tower of Hanoi (modified)<br> Python program to capitalize the character without using a function<br> Python program to lowercase the character without using a function<br> Python program to find perfect number<br> Python program to print perfect numbers from the given list of integers<br> Python program to design a dice throw function<br> Python program to design a biased dice throw function<br> Python program to design a biased coin flip function<br> Python program to design a coin flip function<br> Python program to find greatest integer using floor() method<br> Python program to find the maximum EVEN number<br> Python program to find the maximum ODD number<br> Python program to find the solution of a special sum series<br> Python | Convert the binary number to decimal without using library function<br> Python | Convert the decimal number to binary without using library function<br> Python | Find the frequency of each character in a string<br> Python program to find the maximum multiple from given N numbers<br> Python program to find the least multiple from given N numbers<br> Python program to find the root of the quadratic equation<br> Python program to check the given Date is valid or not<br> Python program to print the calendar of any year<br> Python array programs<br> Python program to find the sum of all elements of an array<br> Python program to find a series in an array consisting of characters<br> Python program to find the occurrence of a particular number in an array<br> Python programs on int class<br> Python program to find number of bits necessary to represent an integer in binary<br> Python program to print number of bits to store an integer and also print number in Binary format<br> Python program to print an array of bytes representing an integer<br> Python program to print the binary value of the numbers from 1 to N<br> Python program to reverse a string using stack and reversed method<br> Python | Program to declare and print a list.<br> Python program to print list elements in different ways.<br> Python | Program for Adding, removing elements in the list.<br> Python | Program to print a list using ‘FOR and IN’ loop.<br> Python | Program to add an element at specified index in a list.<br> Python | Program to remove first occurrence of a given element in the list.<br> Python | Remove all occurrences a given element from the list.<br> Python | Program to remove all elements in a range from the List.<br> Python | Program to sort the elements of given list in Ascending and Descending Order.<br> Python | Program to find the differences of two lists.<br> Python | Program to Print the index of first matched element of a list.<br> Python | Program to find the position of minimum and maximum elements of a list.<br> Python | Program to input, append and print the list elements.<br> Python | Program to remove duplicate elements from the list.<br> Python | Program to Create two lists with EVEN numbers and ODD numbers from a list.<br> Python | Program to print all numbers which are divisible by M and N in the List.<br> Python | Create a list from the specified start to end index of another list.<br> Python | Create three lists of numbers, their squares and cubes.<br> Python | Create two lists with first half and second half elements of a list.<br> Python | Iterate a list in reverse order.<br> Python | print list after removing EVEN numbers.<br> Python | print list after removing ODD numbers.<br> Python | Input comma separated elements, convert into list and print.<br> Python | Convert a string to integers list.<br> Python | Extend a list using + Operator.<br> Python program to find N largest and smallest elements from the list<br> Python program for various list operations<br> Python | Declare, assign and print the string (Different ways).<br> Python | Access and print characters from the string.<br> Python program to print a string, extract characters from the string.<br> Python | Program to print words with their length of a string.<br> Python | Print EVEN length words.<br> Python | Count vowels in a string.<br> Python | Passing string value to the function.<br> Python | Create multiple copies of a string by using multiplication operator.<br> Python | Appending text at the end of the string using += Operator.<br> Python | Concatenate two strings and assign in another string by using + operator.<br> Python | Check if a substring presents in a string using 'in' operator<br> Python | Assign Hexadecimal values in the string and print it in the string format<br> Python | How to print double quotes with the string variable?<br> Python | Ignoring escape sequences in the string<br> Python program to calculate the number of all possible substrings of a string<br> Python program to reverse a given string (5 different ways)<br> Python program to reverse a string using stack and reversed method<br> Python program for slicing a string<br> Python program to repeat M characters of a string N times<br> Python program to swap characters of a given string<br> Python program to remove a character from a specified index in a string<br> Python program for adding given string with a fixed message<br> Python | Create a line plot using matplotlib.pyplot<br> Python | Create a bar chart using matplotlib.pyplot<br> Python | Create a bar graph with using matplotlib.pyplot<br> Python | Create a stacked bar using matplotlib.pyplot<br> Python | Create a scatter plot using matplotlib.pyplot<br> Python | Create pie-chat using matplotlib.pyplot<br> Python | Create stack plot using matplotlib.pyplot<br> Python program for plotting in same and different graph<br> Python program for single dice simulation<br> Python program for single biased dice simulation<br> Python program for biased coin flipping simulation<br> Python program for double biased dice simulation<br> Python program for double dice (one biased one normal) simulation

